.TH "ARCH-UPDATE" "1" "February 2024" "Arch-Update 1.12.0" "Arch-Update Manual"

.SH NAME
arch-update \- An update notifier/applier for Arch Linux that assists you with important pre/post update tasks. 

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B arch-update
[\fI\,OPTION\/\fR]

.SH DESCRIPTION
An update notifier/applier for Arch Linux that assists you with important pre/post update tasks and that includes a (.desktop) clickeable icon that can easily be integrated with any DE/WM, dock, status/launch bar or app menu.
.br
.RB "Optional support for AUR packages update (through " "yay " "or " "paru" "), Flatpak packages update (through " "flatpak" ") and desktop notifications (through " "libnotify" ")."

.SH OPTIONS
.PP
If no option is passed, launch the relevant series of functions to perform a complete and proper update starting by displaying the list of packages available for update, then ask for the user's confirmation to proceed with the installation.
.br
.RB "It also supports AUR packages update (if " "yay " "or " "paru " "is installed) and Flatpak packages update (if " "flatpak " "is installed)."
.br
Before performing the update, it offers to display the latest Arch Linux news to the user. By default, Arch news are only displayed if at least a new one has been published since the last run. Arch news published since the last run or at the same date are tagged as '[NEW]'.
.br
Arch-Update also checks for orphan packages, unused Flatpak packages, old and/or uninstalled cached packages in pacman's cache, pacnew/pacsave files and pending kernel update requiring a reboot to be applied and, if there are, offers to process them.
.br
Those functions are launched when you click on the (.desktop) icon.

.PP

.TP
.B \-c, \-\-check
Check for available updates and change the (.desktop) icon accordingly if there are.
.br
.RB "It sends a desktop notification containing the number of available updates if " "libnotify " "is installed."
.br
.RB "It supports AUR packages update (if " "yay " "or " "paru " "is installed) and Flatpak packages update (if " "flatpak " "is installed)."
.br
.RB "The " "\-\-check " "option is automatically launched at boot and then every hour if you enabled the " "systemd.timer " "with the following command:" 
.br
.B systemctl \-\-user enable \-\-now arch-update.timer

.TP
.B \-n, \-\-news
Display latest Arch news.
.br
.RB "You can optionally specify how much Arch news to display as an argument, like so: " "arch-update --news 10" ". Defaults to 5."

.TP
.B \-v, \-\-version
Display version information.

.TP
.B \-h, \-\-help
Display the help message.

.TP
.RB "Certain options can be enabled/disabled or modified via the " "arch-update.conf " "configuration file, see the " "arch-update.conf(5) " "man page."

.SH USAGE
.TP
.B The (.desktop) icon
.RB "The (.desktop) icon is located in " "/usr/share/applications/arch-update.desktop " "(or in " "/etc/local/share/applications/arch-update.desktop " "if you installed arch-update from source)." 
.br
It will automatically change depending on different states (checking for updates, updates available, installing updates, up to date). It will launch the relevant series of functions to perform a complete and proper update when clicked. It is easy to integrate with any DE/WM, docks, launch bars or app menus.

.TP
.B The systemd timer
.RB "There is a systemd service in " "/usr/lib/systemd/user/arch-update.service " "(or in " "/etc/systemd/user/arch-update.service " "if you installed arch-update from source) that executes the " "\-\-check " "function when launched. To launch it automatically " "at boot and then once every hour " "enable the associated systemd timer (the auto-check cycle can be modified to your liking. See the TIPS AND TRICKS chapter below):"
.br
.B systemctl \-\-user enable \-\-now arch-update.timer

.SH TIPS AND TRICKS 
.TP
.B AUR Support
.RB "Arch-Update supports AUR packages update when checking and installing updates if " "yay " "or " "paru " "is installed."
.br
See https://github.com/Jguer/yay and https://aur.archlinux.org/packages/yay
.br
See https://github.com/morganamilo/paru and https://aur.archlinux.org/packages/paru

.TP
.B Flatpak Support
.RB "Arch-Update supports Flatpak packages update when checking and installing updates (as well as removing unused Flatpak packages) if " "flatpak " "is installed."
.br
See https://www.flatpak.org/ and https://archlinux.org/packages/extra/x86_64/flatpak/

.TP
.B Desktop notifications Support
.RB "Arch-Update supports desktop notifications when performing the " "--check " "function if " "libnotify (notify-send) " "is installed."
.br
See https://wiki.archlinux.org/title/Desktop_notifications

.TP
.B Modify the auto-check cycle
.RB "If you enabled the " "systemd.timer" ", the " "--check " "option is automatically launched at boot and then once per hour."
.br
.RB "If you want to change the check cycle, run " "systemctl --user edit arch-update.timer " "to create an override configuration for the timer and input the following in it:"
.br

.B [Timer]
.br
.B OnUnitActiveSec=
.br
.B OnUnitActiveSec=10m

.br
.RB "Time units are " "s " "for seconds, " "m " "for minutes, " "h " "for hours, " "d " "for days..."
.br
See https://www.freedesktop.org/software/systemd/man/latest/systemd.time.html#Parsing%20Time%20Spans for more details.

.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
OK

.TP
.B 1
Invalid option

.TP
.B 2
No privilege elevation method (sudo or doas) is installed

.TP
.B 3
Error when changing icon

.TP
.B 4
User didn't gave the confirmation to proceed

.TP
.B 5
Error when updating the packages

.TP
.B 6
Error when calling the reboot command to apply a pending kernel update

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR checkupdates (8),
.BR pacman (8),
.BR pacdiff (8),
.BR paccache (8),
.BR yay (8),
.BR paru (8),
.BR flatpak (1),
.BR arch-update.conf (5)

.SH BUGS
Please report bugs to the GitHub page: https://github.com/Antiz96/arch-update/issues

.SH AUTHOR
Robin Candau <robincandau@protonmail.com>
